# Punished by Rewards

I've been reading "Punished by Rewards" by Alfie Kohn, which is a book about the limits of behaviourism and incentive systems that assume behaviourism as the one and only paradigm of explanining human behaviour. There was a point in the mid 1900's where the field of psychology was captured by behaviourism and the fact that it remains the predominant way of explanining human behaviour amongst the suits is unfortunate. Below I've written my thoughts on the topic as I read through the book.
``
## Current reward systems are not meritocratic

Modern incentive systems are unreasonably top weighted. One of the strangest aspects of modern publically traded companies is executive pay. Why should the highest paid employee's (I'm including CEO's as employees since their work agreements are dictated by the board) be the most highly incentivized to do the work? Is there not am implication that they could not be trusted to work effectively without these incentives? What can be most puzzling is how these incentives are aligned with results. If the share price goes up then investors will be happy, but how much of this happiness should be attributed to the CEO is debatable. What's more if this type of incentive system was so effective then eventually companies that didn't partake in these incentive systems would soon be outcompeted. Since we live in a world where there are many companies that treat their employees well and don't resort to explicit KPI's then this is not the case.

## Extrinsic vs Intrinsic motivation
Extrinsic motivation is the antithesis of intrinsic motivation. A recurring example throughout Kohn's book is the Pizza Hut program to reward young students with pizza coupons once they read a predetermined number of books. There are some strange implications to this program, if pizza is the incentive then we are implying that reading needs to be incentivized. When we rely on extrinsic motivation we weaken the implicit value of a task. Even if we are selling our labour it is best to not make the relationship explicit. The best performing workers are those that find enjoyment, challenge and learning opportunities in their work.

## Reward systems are a way of exerting control
In the early 2000's the South Korean President, Kim Dae-Joong, instituted what is known as the "Sunshine Policy" towards North Korea as a way to exert control. When North Korea makes nuclear weapons there is no way for South Korea to punish them, but under the "Sunshine Policy" they have the option to remove rewards. With the Sunshine Policy agreement North Korea would receive aid from the South under the condition that they would stop producing missiles. One side has nuclear weapons but who is in control? Much of modern managerial theory is built on the premise that employees economic output must be controlled. Methods of control often have the opposite effect of their intentions, they can lead to a breakdown of trust and a less efficient working environment. In the example of children reading books to receive pizza, if a child were to come to you and say they read 50 books over the last year are you likely to believe them? 

## Punishment is not the opposite of reward
Punisment is not the opposite of reward, they are one and the same. Take the previous example of the "Sunshine Policy", withdrawing rewards was the equivelant of a punishment, conversely giving a reward is the opposite of punishment. There are many cases where peple are morally opposed to punishments but are supportive of rewards, This is morally inconsistent, if you are in favour of one then you should also be in favour of the other.

For anyone that is still reading, I would recommend the book "Punished by Rewards" for all current and future parents, teachers and managers. Not relying on behaviourist methods is challenging but effective. The opposite is lazy and counterproductive. If you read the book you will find not just issues but solutions

